when it comes to spending your
hard-earned on our suspension kit for
your four-wheel-drive
the last thing you want to be doing is
wasting money on gear that just isn't
right for you
this is where adjustable suspension
technology can be a real lifesaver today
we're going to be speaking with one of
the industry's foremost experts on
adjustable shocks and that's Simon Vela
from tough dog suspension mate what
exactly is an adjustable big-bore shock
absorber
okay recall basically matter a big-bore
shock we were talking about the
internals of the shock absorber which is
where the piston runs up and down we
call a big ball because it's a 45 mil
ball which is much bigger than what most
people would run in bore size and the
fact that it externally adjustable we're
adjusting the valve inside the shock
absorber and that controls the the
piston speed mainly on rebound setting
we've got nine settings in total on the
shock absorbers it's a matter of fact
from setting one denying it's actually a
Matthew eight hundred percent
adjustability now why would a four wheel
driver choose a big bore adjustable
shock absorber over a traditional unit
mate the big one that we're finding is a
lot of guys are doing more than one
thing with their four-wheel-drive
it's not just a mum and dad taught taxi
monday-to-friday they do want to load
these things up which basically you will
need a different shock absorber if you
do start loading these vehicles up up to
their g.b.m and that's where typically
an adjustable profit all that comes in
off with the biggest benefit would be
mailing safety as you're chocol door
burs we're off and we generally don't
see much more than about seventy one
thousand k's and efficiency out of a
standard shop when we upgrade to an
aftermarket shock it's a difference
between keeping your four-wheel drive on
the road or bouncing it off the road if
you'd like any more information on the
entire range of tough dog suspension
products simply head to their web site
at